.\" Manpage for baguette.
.\" Contact via https://github.com/IdanKoblik/baguette to correct errors or typos.
.TH BAGUETTE 1 "2026-06-09" "baguette" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
baguette \- minimal Wayland HUD / status bar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B baguette
.RB [ \-\-separated " | " \-\-full ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B baguette
is a lightweight overlay bar for
.BR wlroots -based
Wayland compositors. It draws a left / center / right status bar using
Cairo on a
.B wlr-layer-shell
surface, and stays deliberately dumb: it does not collect any data itself.
.PP
Instead,
.B baguette
reads
.B frames on standard input
\(em one line per frame \(em and renders them. You bring the content by
piping any program into it. The bar stays up for as long as standard input
is open, redrawing only when the incoming frame actually changes. Send
.B SIGINT
or
.B SIGTERM
(or close the pipe) to exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-separated
Draw each section as a separate rounded pill. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-\-full
Draw one full-width background bar instead of separate pills.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
Each line of standard input is one frame. A frame is split into up to three
sections by tab characters:
.PP
.RS
.I LEFT
\fB\\t\fR
.I CENTER
\fB\\t\fR
.I RIGHT
.RE
.PP
Each section is plain text with optional inline colour tags:
.TP
.B %{#rrggbb}
Colour the text that follows.
.TP
.B %{-}
Reset to the default colour.
.TP
.B %%
A literal
.BR % .
.PP
A colour tag applies from where it appears until the next tag or the end of
the section, so one section can carry several differently-coloured runs.
Anything that is not a recognised tag is kept literally \(em input is never
silently dropped.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Global look (font, colours, sizes) is read from a
.BR libconfig (3)
file at:
.PP
.RS
.I ~/.config/baguette/style.cfg
.RE
.PP
Recognised keys include
.BR font ,
.BR font_size ,
.BR height ,
.BR background ,
.BR hud_padding ,
.BR radius ,
.BR vmargin
and
.BR pad_x .
See the bundled
.I style.cfg
example for the full set.
.SH EXAMPLES
A static one-frame example (left / center / right):
.PP
.RS
.EX
printf 'hello\\tcenter\\tworld\\n' | baguette
.EE
.RE
.PP
Red "CPU 72\(deC" on the right, default-coloured workspaces on the left,
full-width bar:
.PP
.RS
.EX
printf ' 1 2 3\\t\\t%%{#ff5555}CPU 72\(deC%%{-}\\n' | baguette \-\-full
.EE
.RE
.PP
Anything that can print
.I left \\t center \\t right
lines works as a content generator.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B baguette
returns 0 on a clean shutdown and a non-zero value if it fails to connect to
the Wayland display, set up the layer-shell surface, or read its
configuration.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libconfig (3)
.PP
Project home page:
.UR https://github.com/IdanKoblik/baguette
.UE
.PP
za'atar, a ready-made content generator:
.UR https://github.com/IdanKoblik/zaatar
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/IdanKoblik/baguette/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
Idan Koblik and contributors.
